the most important thing about becoming
a software company is to compress your
cycle time we're able to get those times
down from weeks to
minutes the majority of the fortune 10
is using gitlab and there's people using
gitlab on a Raspberry p somewhere we
kind of need to collaborate with all the
companies in the world to make a
platform that can do everything over
5500 improvements in get came from our
users open source has shown that there's
something better there's an enormous
energy from outside the company to
contribute new things to get L 90% of
the hires we make is inbound we get
3,000 applications every week as we
scale we didn't have like attacks
because of being remote we actually did
better the vast majority of the people
on Earth if they want to work for G lot
they can today is an incredible
milestone in our journey I believe we
are the first all remote and the most
most transparent company ever to go
public now rate of improvement is
growing exponentially our product is
better because of the people who choose
to share their improvements with the
whole
world excited to be here today and share
our experience at gitlab as we've
developed the gitlab product with a
wider Community um but first I'd like to
share a little bit about how the gitlab
community got started in in the first
place so gitlab's Journey began when my
co-founder Demitri zaper roet created
gitlab in 2011 as an open-source
collaboration tool while living in the
Ukraine he used a ruby subreddit and
later Twitter to get interest from the
developer community and gamp received
over 300 contributions in its first
year it was the next year 2012 when I
discovered gitlab from my home in the
Netherland and I was really impressed by
their co- quality and the open source
Community behind it I thought it makes
so much sense that something you
collaborate with is also something you
can contribute back to and thinking that
software as a service was the future I
asked the people on Hacker News if they
would be interested in using gitlab.com
a service and the community responded
soon hundreds of people signed up for
the
beta as we started a company around the
G project we were pretty intentional in
how we defined our community the gitlab
community includes all gitlab users
including the gitlab Inc team members
gitlab contributors free users and paid
customers and when speaking about
members of the community that are not
company team members we use the term
wider community and that's a reminder
that the community includes every team
member of git labda company company we
we were part of that larger community we
also try to avoid terms such as such as
Community manager a community is
something that each of us as team
members are part of and helping that's
something that can be managed or
controlled building an active Community
requires intentional effort and it but
it's very valuable an active wider
Community helps co-create the product
which leads to a more Complete product
and maturing at a faster rate it also
provides feedback back about what is
working it helps us to iterate and
improve the product more
quickly and it creates awareness and
champions for the product and the
company this wider Community is at the
heart of our dual flywheel
strategy that strategy leverages both
our research and development group and
our open core wider Community by
leveraging the power of each we create a
cycle where more contributions lead to
more features which lead to more users
leading back to more
contributions in the third quarter of
this year we introduced over 100 new
product features and from January to O
to October of this year we've merged on
average
335 wider Community code contributions
each month significant accelerent to our
development
efforts next I'll speak to our open core
strategy open core is a business model
in which a subset of the functionality
in a product is free and open source
while additional functionality is
proprietary and
monetized gitlab is open core and our
proprietary C is Source available that
means that the code requires payment to
be used in production but that anyone
can freely download modify and submit
modifications to the proprietary code
this ensures that all gitlabs code is
available for users to contribute to it
whether it's part of the free code or
not companies like confluent hashy Corp
and others have similar business models
that are open core providing both open
source and proprietary
features by making proprietary code
Source available customers feel
empowered to co-create the product that
they need customers don't need to sit
around and wait until we prioritize the
feature they want if a customer has a
business need for a feature they can
contribute to it looking at gitlab's
wider Community contributions from
January to October of 2021 where 50% of
them came from users in our paid
tiers these contributions in turn help
other customers with similar business
needs Source available can be a good
option to consider as you look to
co-create with a wider Community but you
don't want to open source part of the
code
Community leads to people loving your
brand which helps with loyalty retention
and expansion at gitlab our dollar-based
gross retention is
97% our customers love our product and
they love being part of the
community the model allows us to do four
things actively invest in a free open
source product from which the community
benefits and this in turn helps create
product champions that help us grow The
Wider
Community the open core model also
enables us to generate revenue from our
proprietary features as I mentioned
earlier customers also benefit from
being able to contribute features to the
product and open core also enables the
do a flywheel strategy where
contributions lead to more users which
in turn lead to more contributions and
revenue so far we've discussed the
beginnings of the gitlab community and
the benefits of open core next I want to
talk about some of the learnings from
the past decade from building trust
fostering Community engagement and
building a company around the gitlab
project commercial models around open
source such as open core typically face
challenges around three things first the
lack of transparency around the
direction of the project second putting
the company's interest before the
project and third a reduction in company
involvement in or support of the the
open communication channels we've
meaningfully invested to address these
concerns and continuously build trust
with our
community first I want to talk about how
we aligned our company values with the
open source ethos in order to bring the
transparency that the community
needs in
2016 a year after incorporating gitlab
as a company we published the blog post
with a clear commitment to
transparency that three part part s that
form our transparency policy are as
follows first of all develop in the open
anybody can submit issues in our public
issue tracker and we also develop in
public second thing is business in the
open our company handbook and our
policies are publicly available over
2,000 pages of how we work as a company
and third a clear Direction our
Direction page clarifies our priorities
and what we are planning on developing
and upcoming
releases as gitlab has grown we've lived
up Liv up as gitlab has grown we've
lived up to this policy to continue
building trust with our community we
default to working openly and
transparen with exceptions only when
necessary such as legal
requirements a recent example to our
commitment to transparency on October
14th G became the first company to
publicly live stream the entire IPO
listing data events at NASDAQ throughout
the process of going public we were able
to keep most of our information publicly
available our transparency policy is
part of our stewardship promise which is
also on our website on this page we also
document an explanation of our open core
business model A criteria that we use to
determine paid only features and an
explanation of how the open- source code
benefits from open core our stewardship
page demonstrates a strong commitment to
the open source EAS and is very specific
about what we will and won't
do some specific promises that we make
are that we won't move features from
free code into a pay tier we won't
artificially limit our delay features
for the free for example in our codebase
we're not putting a limit on
repositories user size or performance in
the free tier the free tier will have
the essential features to run large
Forge with both public and private
repositories we will actively contribute
to the open source code with the
majority of features built by gitlab Inc
being open
source by publicly and transparently
making commitments to The Wider
community and demonstrating these
commitments we have built trust while
also building the
business we have to balance our
stewardship of the project with the need
to generate revenue and one of the most
essential decisions in there was
determining what we would charge for
what would be our business
model we explored many different
business models before choosing open
core we started with donations they
topped out at $1,000 per month it wasn't
enough to sustain the business we tried
consultancy but consultancy doesn't let
you have high margins those High margins
are needed for you to be able to invest
back into the product to pay for work
that is unpa
otherwise we tried paid development but
it was really hard to
coordinate we tried paid support but we
saw customers cancelling after one year
like they didn't need to support and
they didn't because the product kind of
was easy to
run and then we considered charging for
packaging kind of charging for a product
that's easier to install but that means
your open source product is harder to
install that hinders adoption by free
users
so we ended up choosing an open core
business model which has high Revenue
potential and it also allows us to be
good stewards of the open source project
those margins allow us to
reinvest after choosing we open core we
needed to decide what functionality to
monetize what would be the paid
features we first consider pricing based
on the sdlc stage the stage in the
software development life cycle so gab
consists of 10 different stages so we
could price based on do use create or
verify or the other
stages the problem is if you try to
price separately for each You Hinder
adoption of multiple stages the value in
the product comes across when you use
multiple stages so we wanted the pricing
model to make it as easy as possible to
adopt multiple stages so that didn't
work to price per stage
then we priced and we said it's kind of
based on company size if you are a
bigger company you're going to use more
advanced features and you're going to
pay for them the problem is that smaller
companies still needed that advanced
functionality and they said look your
pricing model is not fair we're small
companies still have to pay as a big
company and then we try to price based
on the maturity of the customer and the
problem there is that customer
that were new to defs Ops were getting a
ton of value from gitlab they were
benefiting enormously from the product
they were able to kind they didn't have
a lot to replace so they quickly adopted
the product and gab has many ingrained
best practices it didn't make sense to
charge people who were less mature in
develops less money because we were
providing much more value to
them so we ended up charting based on
the buyer for features that are used by
an individual contributor we put them in
the open source code base for features
that are the focus of an executive we
put them in the highest paid version
that works really well because
individual contributors are much more
likely to contribute and if they
contribute that code is open source
someone is an executive they tend to
have more budget so they don't mind as
much that the features that are
important to them are in a higher tier
they're able to pay for it I believe
this buyer based open core model best
aligns payers with cust cust needs I
also believe it best balances the
revenue potential and providing benefits
to the contributor
Community Beyond transparency and
picking the right business model we
invest heavily in engaging and growing
The Wider Community we use key
performance indicators to decide what
community engagement programs we build
some of the indicators that we use
include the number of individuals from
The Wider Community making contributors
contributions to g land
also the total number of contributions
from The Wider community that we merge
into our codebase each month and we're
also developing a new kpi Mar which
looks at the contributions activity from
the largest customer based on what they
spent with us by measuring and
monitoring these metrics we understand
the impact of our wider Community
engagement
programs and we invest in programs that
are designed to grow our wider
Community we offer free licensing of our
paid plans to education institutions
open source organizations and qualifying
startups our goal with these programs is
to grow our wider Community while
supporting causes that align up with our
mission of enabling everyone to
contribute we recognize that
contributing to a large and complex
complex codebase like gitlabs is often
difficult and intimidating and to help
with that we've hired merg request
coaches these are gitlab team members
who Tre yards income and contributions
and engage with the contributor and
guide them through the process of making
a contribution to g l their goal is to
help these merge requests from the
community get merged into the code base
this includes why the community code
contributions documentation improvements
and code quality improvements to our
tests we also hold regular hackathons
initially I was a bit skeptical about
the efficacy of a hackathon but they've
been a great success bringing the
Community together and helping them
contribute in our latest hackathon
earlier this month we saw 244 submitted
merch requests and that hackathon
followed our most successful hackathon
to date in q1 2021 when we received 390
merch
requests we also make a point to
celebrate our contribut in multiple ways
first of all gab core team members are
volunteers that have made significant
contributions to gitlab this group acts
as a steward for The Wider gitlab
Community up to a third of the core team
are people that are also gitlab Inc team
members with the rest being part of the
wider Community
contributions there's also a program
called gitlab Heroes they recognize
makers members of The Wider gitlab
Community who make outstanding
contributions re reward these gitlab
Heroes by inviting them to special
events supporting their travel and
providing gitlab ultimate licenses swag
and more and gitlab heroes sometimes
contribute code but sometimes help write
blog post or do other
things and lastly with each release we
select the community contributor who
made the most valuable contribution this
MVP most valuable person is choosen by
gitlab team members and members of the
core team and is recognized in the MVP
Hall of Fame and we send them
swag As you invest in the wi Community
or growing your business you should be
mindful of a few things as you skill it
might be tempting to hire from The Wider
community over time you should focus
your active recruiting efforts elsewhere
to avoid depleting your wider
Community second stick to your
stewardship promises for example the
quickly the quickest way to lose
Goodwill is to make an open source
feature
proprietary third make sure you have
clear goals for wider Community
engagement for example the number of
people who contribute to codee over a
period of time and fourth start early
it's very difficult to build a community
from scratch later on in a company life
cycle a great Community makes for a
great project but a community is hard to
build and easy to lose so invest heavily
in your community and keep it top of
mind with every decision that you
make to conclude I want to share some
examples of the impact that the wider
Community had on gitl
a small team at seens adopted gitlab in
2013 for collaboration and version
control over time it skilled to more
than 40,000 users they have had 38
million CI bills we've celebrated two
Sean employes it's gitlab MVPs and also
recognize them as gitlab Heroes seamons
has 150 merged mrss in G lab as they
continue to improve the product for
their own purposes as well as for the
wider community
their contributions lead to more
features we can release which leads to
more users and more
contributions we also hear from gitlabs
Community about how contributing to
gitlab helps them Advance their skills
and their appreciation for the community
that's what makes a community unique
valuable and difficult to
replicate these were just a few examples
of the community it has millions of
users with thousands of people
contributing code language translation
and documentation updates these
contributions help us deliver more
functionality in our releases help paid
users and free users we feel very
fortunate to be part of the community
and we take it very serious to be
responsible for it and to continue to
cultivate the open core business model
has enabled gitlab to be good stewards
of the open source project and generate
revenue revenue growth is 58%
year-over-year and our dollar based
gross retention is
97% that's partly due to gitlab's
collaborative relationship with
customers contributing to the
platform I hope this presentation is
helpful to you as you consider models to
co-create with the vder community as we
have learned with our experience at
gitlab and engage wider Community can be
very valuable and lead to a dual
flywheel model of
growth but fostering trust and growing
this community requires you to align
your company values to trust to be
transparent and be a clear and clear and
reliable Steward we also must pick a
business model that balances the revenue
with the needs of the wider Community
such as getlabs Bier based open core
model and invest in programs to engage
support and grow your wider Community
thanks so much for your time and
attention today with this we'll move to
Q&A thank you Sid so moving to Q&A we
have our first question in when
measuring the health of your community
is there a top kpi you look to or would
recommend for other organizations
pursuing this
model yeah I think so that the top kpi
that we uh look at is how many
contributions did we get and from how
many people and if I have to take one I
would say how many people contributed in
any month so right now that is
uh in
the on average kind of 200ish people who
contribute to G lab in a given month um
and that's really important and we focus
on the number of people over the number
of contributions
because sometimes you split something up
in more or fewer things but the the most
important thing is how many people do
you have engaged and that's a metric
that we also look at like in a hackathon
how many people that we gain how many
people uh contributed
something next question where's the line
between community and simply active
users yeah that's a great question we
consider all our active users part of
the community but of course like there's
there's different activity levels um you
can see someone who is a user and and
kind of uses it dayto day then someone
can go to a champion where they're kind
of fan of the product and they advocate
for it and they tell other people about
it then there's people who kind of
actively engage with others for example
we have an issue tracker where people
talk about um new functionality so
people participating there then there's
people kind of creating content and it
can be in the form of a blog post it can
be in the form of a translation or an
update to the
documentation and then there's people
who contribute new functionality and
coat and grow the product that way when
having conversations with your largest
most strategic prospects is your open
core Community model something that
intrigues them or defers them is this
something you need to spend more time
explaining yeah we it's it's never a
negative it's not top of mind for all
customers so some customers are really
familiar with open source
and they they get it and it's it's
something they look forward to like it
gives them more control um what gitlab
does it gitlab replaces DIY Devils so
commonly what the customer has currently
is a whole bunch of Point solutions that
they stitch together with all kinds of
custom Integrations and they have people
kind of working on that and spending
time on
it when they replace that with gitlab
they get to a single application a
single data store single single
interface with where they no longer have
to spend all that time but frequently
what they do is they have a few people
or a little bit of their time they now
spend on making gitlab work from them so
instead of having to create the whole
DOI devops they contribute a little bit
to the devops platform and that allows
them if they have an urgent business
need to quickly add that to the platform
um
and for those people it's super
important that they have the ability to
U modify the code and and make their own
improvements and they never never have
to wait for
us why did gitlab choose so early to go
Enterprise it's a great question we've
always made the majority of our revenue
from larger companies and uh we found
that larger companies were more prepared
to pay for gitlab um
also larger companies tend to have more
complexity what's happening in the world
is that people have more and more devops
tools and they have more and more
projects and together that's causing an
exponential increase in the number of
tool project Integrations and if you are
trying to keep up with that with a DIY
devops platform you find yourself
spending more and more time building all
these custom
Integrations that's the problem we solve
with our devops platform and
I think that the need for that is the
highest at the most complex
organizations although we see kind of
software development getting more
complex in all kinds of organizations so
over time you have everyone shift into
it but we found an early audience with
these bigger
Enterprises um so how do you continue to
keep up with new releases per month and
is that embedded in getlabs
culture yeah so we had since the
beginning of gitlab we released a new
version on the 22nd of every month and
we've done that for more than a 100
times um what drives that is that that
release contains whatever was ready so
we never wait for something to be ready
that the train runs on time and you're
either going to make the train or not
depending on whether you're on time at
the
station um that reliability of the
trains running on time is really
motivating if you contribute something
to get up you know it's going to when
it's got merged you know when it's going
to go out U and that's create a great
incentive for people to contribute and
very proud of the ability of us to ship
over 100 new features in a in a quarter
with that help of The Wider
Community um do you see your smaller
customers um grow into bigger
customers yeah I won't take credit for
all the growth our customers do but we
we certainly see um that customers
kind of adopted devops platform over
time according to a Forester study we
had commissioned our customers replace 3
point Solutions in year one year two and
year three so as they become more
familiar with gitlab they get to replace
more Point Solutions in the beginning
they might just replace bit bucket and
Jenkins now over time they replace jrog
artifactory and they replace their
custom release scripts and they replace
synopses and verod and black duck um so
it's a gradual process of adopting and
in our S1 filing we talked about our net
retention it's the money that customers
spent with us and it's grown more than
150% which means that if custo a cohort
of customers is spending $100 with you
last year they're now spending
$150 the majority of that is being
driven by kind of user expansion over
time it the number of users grows
because people see the results people
see that they're able to do more with uh
with the people they already have and
get software out faster make it more
reliable uh we are headed into our last
question um more of a forward-looking
question git laab runs on many private
clouds what do you see private versus
hybrid versus monoc clouds looking like
5 to 10 years from now yeah we see
enormous growth in the hyper clouds if
you look at people's sell managing
gitlab the majority of those
installations are in the public Cloud
they are at AWS gcp and Azure and we we
expect that will continue to
grow um we also see enormous growth of
gitlab.com it's more than doubling in
Revenue year-over year and we see
enormous customers adopting it for
example T-Mobile is using gitlab.com and
by switching to gitlab they've been able
to increase their frequency of
delivering value by 10x they're shipping
10 times as fast due to switching to get
L all right well thank you so much uh
looks like we are out of time thanks for
the great questions everyone
[Music]